BUSINESS
Or, How to Sell Imperium Gate

Don't forget to beta test!

PRODUCT LOCKING
There are several ways to do this.  Most usable are probably time-locking (30 days/30 uses), feature-locking (can't beat it, can't go past 200 turns), save-locking (can't save).  Be wary of cracks and keygens; should each game have a serial number that is put with it?  A license file?  Security becomes an issue there.
Copyright the game!  Officially.  If someone sticks a full copy up on a big website, tell 'em to take it down or you'll sue.

PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION
Spiderweb Software can help here.  Many other places can as well, for a price.  I should look around and see what they offer.  I should probably be willing to spend up to 40% of each game's price on distribution.
Check out Garage Games.
Check out other similar services for taking orders and distributing software, not necessarily oriented towards games.
Put demos on your website, but also put them everywhere else you can.  Tucows,
download.com, MSN, Microsoft Network, shareware FTP sites, all sorts of stuff.

ADVERTISING
Plug EVERYWHERE.  Put it in your forum sigs, in your IM profiles.  Get a
website, a good one, and a domain name too.  Make sure you have enough
bandwidth to give out all sorts of demos; pay more for it if necessary, and
make it a higher priority than email, CGI, or site size.  Set up a press
packet and so on, send it to game review sites, both indie and commercial.
Buy an ad for a day on Megatokyo or Thinkgeek or Slashdot or some other
popular site.  Make sure your website gets onto google.  Plug on Usenet; there
are entire froups for these sorts of things.  Plug Gamedev, MZDM, other
places.  Place ads in gaming magazines, if you can.  Find out about how to
make a good press release (read books, ask people, ask Dad).  Look at local
media; Riverfront Times wouldn't be a bad idea.  Don't pay too much for it
though; advertising on paper is expensive.

ACCOUNTING AND ORDERING
Or, how people are going to give you money, and what you do with it.
Make a bank account for your business, and your business alone.  It's called a
merchant account.  Keep track of it.  If money goes in, it's either a donation
from you or income from something being sold.  If money goes out, it's either
salary or expenses.  Do try not to cannibalize all the profit to buy a kickass
computer.  Look up things like sales taxes.  Or better, have an accountant do
it for you.  Do not bother getting credit card merchant status yet.
Check competing prices and see how much other similar things are selling for.
Do not go below $15.  $20-25 is good.  Be bold!

LICENSING AND STARTING A BUSINESS
Go to City Hall and see what the laws are on starting a business.  Check both U City and St. Louis.  
Valiant Productions/Studios.  Use Studios; Productions is already semi-taken.

PEOPLE
I need to get a lawyer, and an accountant.  Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon.  
Talk to Christina and Bakar and Mom and Dad.  Find books or courses in
management.  Find someone willing to mentor and explain things to ye.  Talk to
Shale and Xander about this; find out how they handled it, get advice.
Check the yellow pages.  Check online.  Check Wash U.  Ask people.
