Hokay.  NEW game.  Imperium Gate.  MOO-ish star empire.  And the guiding
principle is KEEP IT SIMPLE, STUPID!!!

I have a good basis though.  Now...

SHIP DESIGN
*Overview
Space-based.  Maybe with some limitation to how much of a certain type of
stuff you can load it down with, a la MOO1 or Pax Imperia.
The big weakness with only having slots is that miniaturization is no longer
an issue except in terms of cost.  So, we have it space-based.  This also lets
us manage weapons and such in stacks.

*Specifics
Okay.  Ships have warp engines, shields, scanners, armor, jammers, combat
drives, weapons, and specials.  (Defences?  Point-defence?  Fighter bays?).
They can only have ONE warp or combat drive or armor type, but can have pretty
much any number of anything else.  
A ship has several properties: Class, size (how much stuff you can fit in it),
mass, thrust, speed (mass/thrust), warp speed, HP, shields, ECM factor,
scanner factor, short-range and long-range accuracy modifiers, as well as
whatever weapons and special things it has.
Ship classes: corvette, destroyer, cruiser, battlecruiser, battleship,
dreadnought, megalith.
System defense ships???

SPACE COMBAT
*Overview
A Stars! Supernova type system, with realistic distances and physics and so on
would be very cool.  A MOO3/Pax Imperia type system, with generic RTS-type
combat, would be pretty good.  A MOO1/SE4 type system with turn-based strategy
would be not too bad.
You divvy your ships up into fleets with different componants, sorta like
MOO3.  However, there are no different types of fleets, just sorta one
all-expanding class.  You do set your ships into different "rings" or
task-groups, such as assault or planet-attack or picket, but there's nothing
to stop you from having 50,000 pickets and one assault cruiser.  Fleets adjust
size and designation depending on what kind of ships you put into them.
Fleets and ships are mutable; you can add and remove ships from fleets, and
you can upgrade ships to newer models.
Is there a "default" fleet of only one ship?  Then all operations are
merging/moving fleets...
Planetary defences are grouped into two types: Ground defences, which are
defensive in nature, mostly shooting down bombs, troop-transports, etc, and
orbital defences, which are offensive satellites that generally shoot at
actual ships.  They are either automatically set to a good mix of weapons
(sorta like MOO1 or MOO2 or Pax Imperia), or you can specify certain designs
and proportions and have various types of fields.  Probably the former.
Beam, projectile, missile, bomb: the traditional Pax Imperia weapon-spread.
Point-defence might be a seperate field.  Bioweapons.  Torpedoes.  Fighters.
Multi-role weapons.  Energy cannons.  Fighters.
Shields are MOO2-ish; absorb a % of damage up to a limit.
Jammers and targetters tend to stack for fleets.  As in, one ship benefits
from all the other ship's scanners and jammers.  This effect is NOT LINEAR
though.  Probably more like the ship's base level + (sum of bonuses/(number of
ships * 2)).  So you can't just have one ship with uber-uber scanners and the
rest of your fleet with none.
Should weapons have different mount sizes, a la SE4 and MOO3?  Not as much as
MOO3.
Ships do NOT repair instantly after each turn!  Except that's hard.
They CAN repair themselves, though.

Combat is TURN-BASED.  It's simpler, and more strategic instead of just
trusting the AI and charging.
I would LIKE the arena of combat to be system-wide and incorperate like, everything, but that might be too hard.


*Fleets
Fleets are broken down into three rings, a la MOO3.  Core ships, escort ships, and picket ships.
Core ships --The main grunt of the force, they get in and shoot things.
Escort ships --The secondary power, typically a bit faster and more
maneuverable, though they still are significantly powerful they tend to be more defensive in role.
Picket ships --Also do a little bit of point-defence work, but mainly just get out there and snoop around.  Fast, powerful ECM and scanners and stealth, weak shields and weapons.

Fleets are always based around a hyperspace carrier that actually moves your
ships around interstellar space.  Carriers are a limited resource that you
have to build and manage.  Ships (tentatively) cannot move around without
carriers.  That's the reason the Imperium Gate is so awesome.  Carriers are
not designed; they are monolithic, generally using a pretty fixed design.

Carriers generally do not take part in battle.  Only in the state of total and
utter war will you attack enemy carriers, since they're such a big investment.
Killing carriers generally makes people hate you, unless they're also at total
war with the same person.

Ships are not restricted by role.  You can put any ship in any role.  However, depending on what role/ring of the fleet you put it in, it'll get different bonuses.  Pickets will have bonuses to sensor range and ECM, core ships will have bonuses to weapons but penalties to maneuverability, and so on.

Okay.  You have fleet designs, which say that for fleet type X, you want 60% of the fleet to be ship class A in the core ring, 20% to be ship class B in the escort ring, and so on.  These are percentages, so fleets can scale up to ANY size.  If you have two fleets of the same type in the same place, they can merge (WILL merge automatically unless you tell 'em not to) into one big fleet of the same type.  You can also split smaller fleets off a big one in the same way.  Fleets are defined by ship size, so if you have free ships and you create a fleet of, say, 200 ships, it'll automatically pick the right proportions of ships.
Now, you can have fleets with just a single ship-type in 'em.  This way they'll absorb any random loose single ships left over, and they'll work exactly like ships in MOO1.  This makes life very simple for moving fleets around and such.

Core ring bonuses:   
Escort ring bonuses: 
Picket ring bonuses: 

You can have fleets that do not fulfill their full complement, or have excess ships.  Call these irregular fleets.  So if you have fleet type A, and need to add other ships to it, you can just say stick 200 extra cruisers to it.  However, it'll still be fleet type A, and behave exactly like it; it'll just have some extra ships glommed onto it.  You can drop these off wherever you want.

Fleet footprint in battle depends on how many ships are in the fleet.  Maybe.

How large you can make a fleet depends on your communication tech.  You can
make a fleet bigger than the max size, but it becomes less maneuverable, has
worse stealth/ECM/defense, and more overkill against single ships in the enemy
fleet.  
Communication tech would be something like "Radio communication: Max 30 ships
per fleet before penalties kick in", or "Laser communication: max 50 ships",
etc.  Communication systems are a definate module on a ship, like ECM or
battle computers, that have to be upgraded in each new ship design.  If you
mix ships with different communication capacities, it's averaged.  So if you
have a fleet that's half comm-50 ships and half comm-100 ships, the maximum
number of ships that can be in that fleet without penalties is 75.
There are also special modules you can develop (command center, command center
more, etc) that increase this limit by a certain percentage.  Only one of them
can be active in a fleet at a time, but you can have any number of backups.
However, they tend to be big and expensive.

*Fleet Tactics
Set policy for things like target selection, focus on defence vs. offence,
concentration of fire, picket roamingness, fleet formation, etc...
Maybe.  KISS.

*Defences
OKAY.  You have planet defenses, orbital defenses, and in-system ships.  You get to design (one?  A couple types of?) each defense.  You tell a system to build "defenses", and it's production is split evenly between the three.  OR maybe you have an empire-wide slider set to change the proportions of the defenses.  Planetary defenses probably focus on shooting down incoming bombs/dropships/whatever, where orbitals and system ships are more offensive in nature.  Each might have limited types of weapons...

*Fleet Support Ships
MAYBE we should have EVE-like support ships and command ships that could add
bonuses for an entire fleet.  They'd be expensive and not too good at shooting
stuff, but overall probably worth having.  The tech would be hard to find, in
all likelihood.  Maybe only by random event?


SPACE TOPOGRAPHY
*Overview
We're not interested in any unit smaller than a solar system, ie individual
planets or moons.  Systems have fertility, capacity, and productivity.  'S
about it.  
There are no specific minerals, no difference in habitability and atmosphere
and so on.  A really habitable system will have planets that you can walk on
without a space-suit, a really unhabitable system will have few places to live
and lotsa blasting radiation.  But what about racial differences then...?
Stars! or MOO3 style, perhaps?
You have warp drives that can go more or less anywhere; no artificial
bottlenecks via wormholes or starlanes.  Wormholes CAN exist to provide a
tactical screwball, sorta like MOO2.  Later it might be an idea to split
things up into a wormhole tech-tree and a warp tech-tree, but I'm not gonna
worry about that right now.  
Fuel merely limits how far ships can travel from your planets, like MOO1 or
Pax Imperia.
Different stars tend to have different characteristics.  There are
technologies that will increase your ability to utilize various kinds of
systems.  There are nebulae, a la MOO1.
Can you find planets and get general info about nearby stars without sending
scout ships?

SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE
*Overview
It's rather like Stars!.  A relatively small assortment of enhancements to
build, infinate queue and good auto-queue options.  Things don't need a lot of
micro-management.
The smallest population increment is 1000 or 10,000 or 1,000,000 people...
heavily populated systems can have populations approaching the trillions.
Factories, population expansion, ground/space defences, ships, specials (such
as stargates), terraforming.
Mines, industry, energy?, research?, defences, shipyards?, 
DEA's!  It's actually not a bad idea for administering a system...
There are cities, there are factories, and there are defences.  Cities
increase population max.

New ideas:
Smallest population increment is 1 million or 1 billion people?  Maybe.  Probably a million.
Habitability and such: the current system is just flat radiation and gravity for the star.  This sucks.
Paul had a better idea; there are four seperate regions in a system, close-to-star, inner, outer, and way-out-there.  Each of these regions has their own habitability ratings.  Different races use different parts of the system.  Then if you get better tech that lets you expand that rating, it just goes poof and the system capacity suddenly gets bigger.
Different zones have different benefits?  Like, close-in is better for industry, further out has more space and lower maintainance costs?  Hmmm.

Minerals and such: Perhaps each region just has a straight percentage modifier to your factory output.  Yeah.

City = colony.  Makes more sense that way.

As you build more colonies, it takes a greater and greater amount of money to
MAINTAIN...  Yeah.

System management?
MOO-ish slider bars.  So oldschool!  Ship, budget, industry, infrastructure, defense.  Industry needs maintainance, which includes waste cleanup?  Ecology is maintainance of colonies?

Terraforming is a percentage bonus to the flat habitability, instead of MOO1's absolute bonus?

Lots of small colonies, or a few big colonies?  I've been leaning toward the latter, but the former might make a bigger difference between planets you've had for a long time and planets you haven't.  Maybe a few big colonies, but the more colonies you have the more expensive they get?

Artifacts and stuff like that!

On the starmap, you can put a little bar-chart next to each system showing, very concisely, it's attributes.  There might also be Stars!-like overlays.

You will have two seperate tabs for building ships.  One builds single ships of a given type, and one will build all the ships for a given type of fleet.

ECONOMY
*Overview
It's fairly simple.  KISS.  Your costs from ship maintainance, defence,
spying, etc are totalled up and subtracted from the gross product of the
empire.  You look at how big a percentage that is, and subtract that from the
production of each planet.  You can build up a surplus if you want.  Basically
lifted entirely from MOO1.  It's a good system.  Very unobtrusive. There are
no specific "resources" like Stars! or SE4, just generic bling-bling.  All
systems are assumed to be able to feed themselves, as well. I mean, who's
gonna ship GRAIN over interstellar distances??
Okay.  Forget all that.  The way it works is thus:
You total up production from all planets, from people and factories, and add
trade to it.  That's income.
You total up maintainance costs for fleets, defences, spies, counterspies,
taxes and economy overdrive.  That's outgo.
You do outgo / income = percentage of each planet's production that dissapears
off in taxes.  Racial traits then increase or decrease this percentage.

Or maybe Pax-Imperia-ish?  Percentage of each planet, imperial reserve, CP subsidy.

*Secondary idea:
This doesn't have to be in the base system, but would be an interesting
addition: Each industrial, highly-developed, rich planet would have a
"culture" influence radiating out into space around it.  Planets closer to it
would be more civilized and thus have their culture levels enhanced slightly,
which provides better growth and industry bonuses, and generally makes the
planet better.  So a colony created right near three big happy industrial
planets would get all the TV channels, industrial goods, and fancy food, and
thus grow and become modern very quickly.  Whereas a planet situated waaay out
in the boondocks would have two TV channels, pre-fab housing, and local grubs
to eat, and thus only attract the hardiest citizens and grow rather slowly and
operate less efficiently.  It'd be an interesting influence.  Once a planet
reaches a certain threshold, it starts producing it's own culture-field, which
helps other nearby planets.  The maximum culture depends on how good the
planet itself can get; you'll probably only have a few large centers per
region.
Now, once you have that interesting influence, you can immediately think of
interesting ways to manipulate it.  Being near a friendly race could let you
bonus off some of their culture, or much more if you have lots of trading and
culture exchange with them.  An enemy race might have the opposite effect.
You could have various techs or race traits that affect how fast culture
grows, how fast planets reach the threshold, how much it affects your
civilization as a whole.  You could create incentives that would increase a
planet's culture in exchange for money.  There could be random events (such as
gold rushes) that momentarily inflate a planet's culture, giving the entire
region an economic boost.

SPECIES DESIGN
*ALTERNATIVE: Moo2/3 style, with various areas, and pluses/minuses in each of
'em.
*Overview
Species design is merely the art of trading advantages for disadvantages.
Now, in some games like Stars!, these things are the MOST distinct aspect of a
race, and dramatically affect how the game is played.  In others, like SE4,
it's a more subtle influence.  I still rather like the Stars!-ish idea of each
race having a primary trait, and an assortment of adjustments upon it.  
Can you have various effects like government and corruptability that can
affect gameplay?
Primary traits: Space combat, ground combat, research, building,
environmental/terraformer, expansion, wanderer, spy, diplomat, hardy
(silicoid), defensive, JOAT, stealth, bioweaponist.
High grav = higher battle speed?
Secondary traits (positive and negative variants):
Engines, weapons, terraforming, production, population growth, research,
trustworthy, luck, maintainance, construction, sensors, 

*Species classes
Species classes are MAIN attributes that can drastically change how you play
the game: they can have special ship designs, attributes, technologies,
starting relations, etc.
Starfighters
+Better space combat
+Better ship building
+Better space weapons
-Worse ground combat
-Higher maintainance
Hulking Brutes
+Better ground combat
+Better construction
-Lower habitability
-Higher maintainance?
Geeks
+Better all-around research
+Better habitability
-Worse construction
-Lower growth
Mad Architects
+Better construction
+Lower maintainance
-Better habitability
-Lower growth
-Worse terraforming/environment
Eco Nuts
+Best terraforming/environment
+Resistant to bioweapons
-Worse production
-Lower growth
Expansionists
+Fast growth
+Better propulsion
+Higher habitability
-Lower diplomacy
-Worse production
-Worse maintainance
Wanderers
+Better sensors
+Better production
+Better manuverability
-Worse growth
-Worse habitability
Diplomats
+Better diplomacy (duh)
+Slightly better research
-Worse ground combat
-Slightly worse spying
Sneaks
+Better spying
+Better ship stealth
-Worse diplomacy
-Slightly worse ship manuverability
Missile Nuts?
Biologists?
Minelayers?
Wormhole specialists?
Hippies?

*Species attributes
These are small, one-shot specilizations.  They can be good, bad, or both.
+Ancient (know whole galaxy map)
+Lucky Bastards (Fewer bad random events)
+Rich Bastards (Higher population production)
+Perceptive (Higher scanner and battle accuracy)
+Fuzzy and cute (Better initial relations)
+Famous (Attract more/better heros)
+Comedians (Better diplomacy)
+Self-sustaining (Better range, less maintainance, more habitability)
=Speed freaks (Faster engines, more maintainance)
=Generalists (Lower research points, more techs in general)
=Growth spurt (Higher population growth, lower production)
=Fervently religous (Higher production, lower research)
=Gung-ho (Better offence, worse defence)
=New Jersey Drivers (Slower engines, less maintainance, slightly lower
diplomacy)
=Social (Start close to other races)
=Isolationist (Start far from other races)
=Organized (Better production, worse research) ???
=Discordian (Worse production, better research) ???
-Democratic (Periodic slowdown in production)
-Poor Bastards (Lower population production)
-Unlucky Bastards (Fewer good random events)
-Short-sighted (Lower scanner range and battle accuracy)
-Hideous (Worse initial relation)
-Anonymous (Attract fewer/worse heros)
-Punsters (Worse diplomacy with everyone but punsters; great with punsters)
-Hedonist (Higher maintainance/worse range, worse habitability)

*Hmm.  Maybe break it up a bit?  Physical/mental/spiritual?  It's a good mix,
but spiritual may be a stretch.  Paul's race group, evolutionary modifier,
homeworld?  Hmmm....   physical, mental, evolutionary?  That might work.
Physical: Brute, Wimp, Average, Sneak, Phage, Rabbit, Avian, Subterranean
Mental: Geek, Eco-Nut, Tactician, Mad Architect, Nomad, Diplomat, Hippy,
Starfighter, Zealot
Evolutionary: Predator, Prey, Transdimensional, Scavanger, Parasite, Symbiote, JOAT, Hive
Social: Astronomers, Lucky Bastard, Rich Bastard, Perceptive, Fuzzy and Cute, Famous, Comedians, Self-sustaining, Speed Freaks, Generalists, Growth Spurt, Fervently Religious, Gung-ho, New Jersey Drivers, Social, Isolationist, Organized, Discordian, Democratic, Poor Bastards, Unlucky Bastards, Short-sighted, Hideous, Anonymous, Punsters, Hedonist, Sneaky Gits, Blatant Fools,
***: Physical: Aquatic?
Social attributes are a series of sliders instead of absolutes?  Hmm...
Gravity tolerance?  Different environments (asteroids, gas giants, terrestrial worlds, comets)?  Space aptitude, nomadiness, 

Several different areas, and you can choose to be excellent in one, very good in one, decent in one, and bad in one.  Kinda like Werewolf.

Slider bars!  You start out with say, 100 race points.  There are several categories, say Mental and Physical, Social, whatever.  You distribute your race points between these areas.
Then, within each of these areas, there are various abilities/buffs that you can buy.  Say, Physical would have better reproduction, better ground combat, better environmental tolerance, and so on.  Depending on how many points you put into that category, you have points to put into those more specific abilities.  You can also have one-shot special abilities that'll cost points




TECHNOLOGY
*Overview
We start with ONE tech tree, somewhat randomized a la MOO1.  Eventually,
depending on how elaborate we get, we might end up with a rather more complex
system.  I think research shall be drawn out of the imperial economy, like in
Stars!, instead of an influence of each planet like MOO1.
Possible different tech areas: Computers, Weapons, Energy, Construction,
Propulsion, Biotech, Materials, Mathematics, Physics, Force Fields, Space Real
tech areas: Energy, propulsion, biotech, construction, electronics,
mathematics.
Are techs single-field only, like MOO1, or multiple-field, like Stars?  They
ARE tech-based and not level-based, like MOO1 vs Stars.  Hmm, single-field for
now.  KISS.
Electronics, Energy, Construction, Propulsion, biotech, mathematics/physics

DIPLOMACY
*Overview
Erm, fairly MOO1-ish.  There are races, they like or dislike each other to a
certain extent based on how much they have in common(?).  Positive actions
like giving them money/tech, trading tech, setting up trade agreements,
helping against an enemy, improve relations.  Negative actions like moving
fleets through their space (if not allied), allying with enemies, attacking
them, looking at them funny, hurt relations.
Spying, now.  You can sabotage ships/systems, you can steal tech or maps or
other info, you can do counter-espionage, you can try to assassinate a leader
or minister/hero, you can encourage piracy and other nasty things.  Fun stuff.
Are spies "characters", sorta?  IE does each spy have unique statistics in
terms of skill, loyalty, etc?  Probably not; it's annoying.
Leader personalities, a la Civ/MOO1/MOM?  Perhaps.  Basically just adds
weights to the AI actions.


RANDOM EVENTS
Fame?

Mystery traders!
Comets
Mineral strikes
Space amoebas, random hegemonizing swarms, Avatar Terminus, the Beast,
Tyrranids, Orks, 
("AT has been spotted moving into the galaxy. Everybody was recorded saying
"OH SHIT" simultaneously")
Pirates, derelects, raiders, chaos storms
Lost colonists being rediscovered
Wormholes
Pirates.  Mercenaries.  Knights-errant.  Privateers.  Jedi.  Gangsters.  BOFH
sysadmins going berzerk.  Accidental equipment combustion.  Sudden AI
awakenings.

That last one sounds fun, there are a lot of things AI's could do.
It could fuck you up hard, do something nice and vanish, make one of your
planets rebel, hang around for a hundred turns or so making you uber...  It
could make some of your fleets rebel, or hang around making life hell for you
for a while, it could take over other's fleets too...


MISC
Have a research speed multiplier
*Overview
Should people become unhappy?  Nah.
Need various random events.  Space amoebae, comets, mineral strikes,
derelicts, raiding pirates, etc.
I still like the MOO2-ish idea of famous heros/commanders/ministers.  Maybe
they can have special ships/artefacts/whatever?
Conquored populations?  Nah, not right now.  Magnate civilizations would be
cool though.
Ships and fleets gain experience?  Morale?  Not at the moment.  Experience
should be an issue later, though...
Interstellar mines, a la Stars?  Nah.
Interstellar cruise missiles!  Muahahaha!
Pirates.  Mercenaries.  Knights-errant.  Privateers.  Jedi.  Gangsters.  BOFH
sysadmins going berzerk.  Accidental equipment combustion.  Sudden AI
awakenings.
 --Make (optional) funny (adlib-type?) news columns for all these things.
 Think SimCity 2000
Psionic races?
Artifacts!  Derelicts!  Comet stations, wandering interstellar distances?
Stealth armor?  Scattering sensors?  MOO1-ish Improved or Advanced sensors?
Stealth should be Stars-ish...
More or less hardwire it for 1024x768.  KISS!
Fame, a la MOM?
Galactic senate?  Nah...
Needs some gimmick, a la Orion.  Heh, that's easy: The Imperium Gate.  A big
honkin' stargate; you can go from it to any planet you control in one turn.
You know how in MOO1 The Tech is death rays?  Here it's stargates. 

Autobuild for System Defense Squadrons? Orbital defenses? Or are defenses all
surface-based, like traditional MOO I, missile bases, etc? For variation, make
a race with beam bases, and a race with asteroid bases. Remember in MOO I
there'd be maps with asteroids every so often? Well, this one race would come
with ANGRY ROCKS.

Heh, have semi-random, frivolous information on various planets mixed in with
the various real statistics.  Things like number of TV channels per capita.
Things that you might find in a real census, but are rather silly.

There needs to be an error message somewhere that says "You bastard!"

Allow planets to be converted into world-ships.
