So, how am I going to build this thing?

GUI LAYOUT
Main menu screen
-Continue game
-New game
-Load game
-Settings
-Quit

Race design screen

Main galaxy screen
-Main window
-Sidebar
-Topbar
--System screen
--Map screen
--Tech screen
--Ship design screen
--Fleet build screen
--Empire summary screen
--Diplomacy screen
--Spying screen?
--News screen
--Tactics screen?
--Captain/Minister screen
--Combat sim?
--Game screen
--Game date/summary

The main galaxy screen has a sidebar on the right and a row of buttons on the
top.  The sidebar displays context-sensitive information, depending on target:
System, fleet, other?  The buttons include: Game, System detail, Map, Tech,
Ship design, Fleet summary, Empire summary, Diplomacy, Spying, News, Heros,
Next Turn.  It also has a display showing the year, and perhaps
research/diplomacy minibars, gross and net empire production, etc.

When a system is selected, the sidebar shows the following information:
Name, picture, top 3 items of the build queue, factory count, population,
population growth, population max, gross/net production, habitability, mineral
richness, owner, defence station/installation/shield info.
If you do not own the planet, you cannot see the build queue, factory count,
pop. growth, production, or defence info.

OR, double-click on a system to see all this, in a bigger screen?  Maybe not.

When a fleet you own is selected, you see the name(?), ship/formation
breakdown, overall power rating, range, speed, stealth level, and destination.
If you do now own the fleet, this info is limited to ship count, speed, stealth
level, and destination(?).

Map screen
The Map screen has a zoomable(?) map of the universe.  It has various
overlays: Explored/unexplored planets, owned planets, inhabited planets, show
pop, show production, show resources, show habitability, show fleet
destinations, show names.
It also has a system-finder.  Vital, that.

Tech screen
Fairly basic, MOO1 or Pax Imperia style.  Shows a list of techs researched and
techs currently being researched, with summaries.  Slider-bars for
distribution.  Total RP being generated.  Slider bar for deciding how much of
the gross imperial production goes into research.  

Ship design screen
Ships have warp drives, combat drives, sensors, jammers, shields, armor,
weapons and specials.  You can have ONE drive of each type, any amount of
sensors, jammers, shields, or armor up to 70% of the ship's capacity, and ANY
amount of weapons and specials.  Design screen is rather Pax Imperia-ish.
Ship classes: destroyer, cruiser, battlecruiser, battleship, dreadnought,
megalith.
A ship has the following properties: Class, size (how much you can fit into
it), combat speed/manuverability, warp speed, armor, shields, jamming, stealth
(jamming is for combat, stealth is galactic), scanners, weapons, specials.

Fleet build screen
You can "rally" ships at a certain point, which makes a certain number of
ships of the specified types without orders automatically go to a certain
point.  There should be a map display of this.  You can click on stars/fleets
to make them not be included in the rally, ie for garrisons.
The basic fleet composition screen is two lists with traditional
back-and-forth buttons between them.

Empire summary screen
Shows nice things like planet summaries, planet list, planet finder, gross
imperial product, net imperial product, amounts devoted to research, ship
maintainance, spying, counterspying, trade, population, and so on.

Diplomacy screen
MOO1-ish, easy.  Picture of each race, relations, basic statistics and info,
comparisons.  Conversation is MOO1-ish.  Peace treaty, non-aggression pact,
alliance.  Trade, tribute, trade tech, trade research.  Threaten.  Cultural
exchange?  Costs, but improves relations over time.  Ally vs. enemy.
Spying is included: counterespionage level, spy level towards each race,
mission settings.  Missions include: Do nothing, steal tech, steal maps,
destroy factories/installations, sabotage ships, steal ships, mission SNAFU
ships, ecological/nuclear disaster, incite piracy, incite war with other
races, assassinate leader, assassinate hero, incite rebellion...

News screen
Just shows what's happened this turn, a la MOO3/SE4.  Simple.

Tactics/formations screen?
Ummmm... nothing for now.  KISS.  Later formations may factor in tightness and
agressiveness

Captain/Minister screen
MOO2-ish, simple.  Assign heros to fleets/planets, see hero status.

Battle screen
-Ship/fleet status
-Battle scanners
-Ship options -self-destruct, overdrive, retreat, whatever.
-Tactics?  Auto-resolve, at least.
-Formations
-Weapon/device selection




Ummmm.... so how the schmeck do I put this together?
Well, the core of it is the Universe.  It has a bunch of properties, things
like systems and ships, ideas like random events and races and techs, etc.
So basically what you do is you change a few properties in this Universe, then generate a new turn.  And just keep doing that.
So you have your Universe object, and you have your gui-display that is your window to it.  

Universe:
Races
Systems
Fleets/Ships
Empires
Events/conditions
Wormholes
Spies
Diplomatic relations
Ship designs
Planet installations

Race diplomacy, spies, relations, conversations.



ART:
Search for open-source/free art
Look for artists.
Try some things yourself too.


CORPERATE:
Think of a studio/company name and make a logo.  Any ideas?
Icefox Productions is the obvious.
Sunreacher?  Errant Angel?  Lost Angel?  Crazy Phoenix?  Exultant?  Razor's
Edge Studios (since I'm on one at the moment)?  Songhua?
Valient Productions!
Or Valient Studios.  ^_^
And using the wing-over-crossed-shield logo Paul made for Fire Emblem.  And
don't forget the stars.  ^_^

